---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/00-09-website/01-about-the-index/"}
---

Hello! Thank you for visiting the PowerMyth Index. This website is a digital garden that attempts to link helpful references and all of my original research while pursuing a PhD in Social Policy.

Basically, I love categorizing and I hate extreme wealth inequality. BAM, here's my solution for both!

## What To Expect
It's impossible to say. Some pages will be full-length essays, others will be tiny reference lists for further reading. Especially while this is still under development and rapidly changing, it's going to be all over the place. Oops! Each page will generally have a marker at the top that notes its level of completion. The tricky part with something like this is that no page can ever *really* be done, but I'll try to differentiate between what I'm actively working on and what's not on my radar at the moment.

Even at its worst, though, it should still be helpful as a source to find related content. **This doesn't mean I necessarily endorse or agree with everything included**. It's more like me putting a bunch of stuff on the table to help you find your own path depending on what you're interested in. You can take some of it, all of it, or none of it.

## How To Explore
**It's up to you!** ...okay, I *guess* there's a reason I set [[10 - 19 Power/10. Power\|10. Power]] as the homepage. I do think it's helpful to get the theory in that section down before exploring. Major sections are ordered in a way that would make sense to go through chronologically, but at the end of the day, the best method is going to be the one that keeps you interested. Maybe expand the [[00 - 09 Website/00. Sitemap\|00. Sitemap]] to see if any page titles interest you?

Ultimately, all the hypertext on each page is there to keep you oriented. No matter where you start, you'll never be lost. You can click on any unfamiliar concept to get up to speed and then return to where you were. So if you want to skip through the theory for now, you can always just come back to it whenever it's immediately relevant to you.

