---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/00-09-website/03-who-cares/"}
---

> [!failure] *This page is a barren wasteland. Come back soon!*

Totally fair question. I care!! But I also understand that describing a bunch of super abstract concepts in isolation does not immediately translate to something practical or actionable. And I get skepticism with 'master frameworks' that try to explain stuff about society in totality. So! **This page is an attempt to deconstruct and preemptively defend where I see the value of this work.**

In the future, my goal is to address these concerns directly in their relevant pages... but this is a messy work in progress at the moment, and I want to be as transparent as possible in the meantime. Also, I'm not entirely sure where to put some of this stuff yet! This will likely be a hefty dumping grounds for meta topics, so **be sure to use the Table of Contents**.

Be sure to also check **out the FAQ page on my website** for other miscellaneous thoughts. If you have critiques that aren't listed here, please reach out to belmontindex@gmail.com. I'd love to hear from you on how we can make this better!

## The PowerMyth Framework Itself
- Move away from actors
- Try to be a place where people can find new, information of interest to them

> [!quote] Power relations are not only inescapable, but also necessary for promoting a range of social goods... The question of how power shapes freedom becomes a question about, not distribution and individual choice, but the differential impact of social practices and institutions on actors' capacities to participate in shaping the conditions of their collective existence.
> [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.02. Clarissa Hayward\|81.02. Clarissa Hayward]], *De-facing Power (2000, p. 39)*

Instead of asking how power is distributed or how the powerful dominate, we should ask...
> [!quote] How - that is, through which mechanisms and through which political processes - do people define and order collective value and meaning?
> [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.02. Clarissa Hayward\|81.02. Clarissa Hayward]], *De-facing Power (2000, p. 8)

## Power Theories as Zero-Sum

Patching all of these different interpretations can really illuminate new strategies for change. [eyben citation]

### People
Social justice is positioned as a fight on behalf of the many, yet it has far from universal support from its target population. People disadvantaged by current systems would intuitively be supportive of policies to redistribute power, but this is not a guarantee in practice. Consider a worker in poverty who, in voicing opposition to welfare programs, denigrates recipients as responsible for their destitution. Centuries of narratives characterizing “the poor” help clarify this apparent contradiction, as dominant worldviews reinforcing inequality can pass through anyone. Individuals are not just owners or receivers of goods; rather, they are actors in relation to one another (Young, 1990). This phenomenon is not an anomaly, either. Next, consider the scorn some political liberals express toward impoverished Republican voters in Appalachia (Catte, 2017). The supposedly racist, backwoods region is deemed responsible for its situation, while decades of economic, political, and psychological exploitation go ignored by potential allies. Equations of the oppressor and the oppressed are often rendered overly simplistic by the diffuse capabilities of ideology.

Even when oppression is more overt - as with race or gender - distribution alone still fails to represent the totality of how power is used. The implied growth for some at the detriment of others hones in on culprits, but that role is left ambiguous. For generations, racism remains enmeshed with institutions and laws, sexism remains rampant in cultural norms, so who should be held liable in a fight for justice other than those who (either deliberately or by default) benefit from historic inequities? Disadvantaged members of the dominant culture often respond to racial equity measures with backlash for this very reason (Liaquat et al., 2023). They have not visibly experienced personal gain from the system, and then this zero-sum mentality is amplified by critics who claim such efforts are just attempts to induce white guilt (Sow, 2022). Once again, this is a bit of a paradox. Most white males would benefit from both addressing and understanding oppression too, but a simple reduction to identity politics is ripe for otherization. Centering the conversation on how power manifests, rather than through whom, could insulate from attempts to distract from solidarity.

### Social Justice Advocacy
Ultimately, reframing power can be a guiding force for social justice strategy. In legislative chambers across the country, groups across disparate policy areas strive for more equitable systems, whether or not they officially adopt the social justice moniker. Even though housing, health, education, and other sectors are parts of a whole, individual agendas can conflict or define equity differently (Smith & Weinstock, 2018; Phipps et al., 2021). Self-preservation turns a “fair and equitable system” from a clear target to a sliding scale. The dilemma of identity politics factors in here, too; an advocacy organization might calculate that distance from divisive racial equity language is worth the electoral leverage of not alienating moderate suburban voters. Gains are short-lived, though, when ceding ground to the boundaries of the “politically feasible” validates the same dominant ideology the group is fighting against. Opening up power reveals the roots of inequity across policy areas are more aligned than not. Power reveals a path toward creating a coordinated action network.


## Realms of Freedom / Dominant Realm
- We so confused by "end DEI," "end wokeness" even though they can't really be defined..? but that's ultimately what those concepts are, they just can't admit they're limiting freedom for anyone.
## Mythoscapes
Uhhhhhh heard of this little thing called ***EMPATHY??*** Yeah. It's awesome. That's all this really is. An understanding of each other's Mythoscapes is really just empathy.

I think it's also helpful for the problems with academia and transparency (positionalilty)

## A "Master Theory"?? and other stuff
Problems with there being Master Theories
- Agree that nothing can represent everyone, but the goal is that this is **based** in there being different perspectives. Also, can pick and choose, goal is to just present things and maybe will apply maybe not.

All these fancy new words are annoying.
	- It does feel kind of weird making them up, especially when there's only one or two small changes from an existing concept (for example, Mythoscapes and Doxa/fields). Logistically, I'm not sure how else to approach this. It would feel weird consistently saying "like doxa but XYZ," and it would feel even weirder redefining it on my own terms. The concept of "Power" has been contested forever, so that's okay. But anywhere else? Just to set consistency, have shorthand that can be referenced, etc.
	- Eventually, will have sources worked into the pages themselves, for now look for the [[00 - 09 Website/04. Bibliography\|04. Bibliography]] to be published in late April.

- You're missing XYZ.
	- Damn okay let me add it!!