---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/00-09-website/04-bibliography/"}
---

> [!info] **Last Updated:** March 28, 2026

## How We Got Here...
The PowerMyth Machine, and this Index in general, only exists because of the work that has come before. Its very design is an attempt to reconcile different schools of thought, so this **Bibliography** is part of tracking all those significant contributions.

Comprehensive reference lists will be maintained on each individual page, but that is a little harder to do with theoretical sections 10 - 21... I'm not sure how exactly to cite ideas that developed from broad frameworks or works that don't have a clear place to embed in the text. I also want to be able to differentiate between what influenced the origins of the Machine versus what bolstered its development through independent alignment.

So, my attempt to maximize transparency is using this page as a snapshot in time. Below, you'll find three related and non-chronological sections that detail what (and who!) influenced my thinking, including personal experience. Part bibliography, part story? Don't just rely on what you find here, though!! Explore the [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.00. People\|81.00. People]] and [[80 - 89 Resources/82 Concepts/82.00. Concepts\|82.00. Concepts]] sections! Search for related concepts outside this Index! Mine is only one perspective and might not match yours.

## Origins: Inequity & Power
For a few years in the 2020s, I worked in what Elon Musk lovingly refers to as the "Homeless Industrial Complex." If you're unfamiliar, support for people experiencing homelessness is very confusingly distributed across a number of different nonprofits, government agencies, and charities. Me and my small team were responsible for trying to patch it all together for a coordinated regional **response** (emphasis on response).

The term "homelessness" gives the implication that the central problem to solve was housing, but that's really just the most visible/pressing outcome, you know? Folks become economically deprived for any number of reasons - job loss, medical emergencies, domestic violence - that housing alone doesn't solve. Quite frankly, this country just has a super precarious economic structure that doesn't leave much room for error if you don't have support of your own. So, homelessness represents when *every* system fails people. The resulting exclusion from society, and the health/legal/social effects therein, makes it significantly harder to come back to "life as usual."

So why was so much of our effort (speaking very broadly here), focused on the *response*, anyway? All this time trying to make it easier for people to get government benefits they're eligible for, but why was navigating these processes a full-time job in the first place? All this time trying to squeeze out the most efficient use of every government grant, but... wait, who called it the Homeless Industrial Complex again? Wait, the wealthiest people in America have ***how much*** money??! Dang shouldn't we, idk, do something about that?

### Theory
Wealth inequity seemed overwhelming and inevitable. Not only was the material gap between the richest and the poorest already dramatic and growing wider, but the vast majority of our policies and institutions only seemed to entrench it further. Why wasn't it a priority to address this?

The picture got a little clearer after I was led to the excellent *Power & Powerlessness* (1980) by [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.03. John Gaventa\|81.03. John Gaventa]]. Guided by the three faces of Power as described by [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.20. Steven Lukes\|81.20. Steven Lukes]] and others, he explored the relationship between a community of impoverished coal miners and exploitative Company owners in Appalachia. Beyond existing material and structural advantages, the Company appeared to successfully convince the community that exploitation was actually in their interest. It was a sort of psychological manipulation. This was extremely helpful in conceptualizing more complex forms of domination (including those that are invisible!). 

Meanwhile, Iris Marion Young, in her *Justice and the Politics of Difference* (1990), offered a caution against social justice relying exclusively on the notion of equal "distribution." Though advocates tend to emphasize goals of greater access to resources or opportunity for marginalized groups, she argued this often obscures the institutional context (like decision-making structures) and loses its meaning with noncountable concepts like rights or self-respect. Well, dang. That complicates the idea of there being the power*ful* and the power*less*.

[[10 - 19 Power/10. Power\|10. Power]] is a rich concept, though, and one tackled by an endless cadre of scholars since the 60s (see: [[80 - 89 Resources/80 Resources/80.01. Power Debate\|80.01. Power Debate]]). [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.01. Michel Foucault\|81.01. Michel Foucault]] used a genealogical method[^1] to broaden Power as a ubiquitous concept baked into disciplinary institutions. Power, instead of something people *have*, is something that just *is*. It's not just used for domination; it is also productive, relational, and necessary. [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.04. Pierre Bourdieu\|81.04. Pierre Bourdieu]] saw it similarly and wrote extensively about socialized processes that develop unstated assumptions and shape who we become. These French postmodernists articulated the reality I saw in homelessness, but perhaps rightfully met critique for lacking clear, actionable solutions in the context of inequity. Enter [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.02. Clarissa Hayward\|81.02. Clarissa Hayward]], whose *De-facing Power* (2000) applied these ideas (along with those from [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.18. Jürgen Habermas\|81.18. Jürgen Habermas]] and others) to the "three faces" debate, suggesting that Power instead be conceptualized as the social boundaries that demarcate possible fields of action. The influence of her study of a classroom, analyzing how Power shapes not just the actions of the students but also of the teachers, should be extremely evident in the PowerMyth Machine.

>[!fail] Warning: the remainder of this section is currently being written!
## Myth: Critical Race Theory & Intersectionality
For discussion:
- Misperceptions of government assistance and the normalization of poverty

Theory:
- The Racial Contract and [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.27. Charles W. Mills\|81.27. Charles W. Mills]]
- White Logic, White Methods and [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.25. Eduardo Bonilla-Silva\|81.25. Eduardo Bonilla-Silva]]
- [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.30. Kimberlé Crenshaw\|81.30. Kimberlé Crenshaw]], [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.31. Patricia Hill Collins\|81.31. Patricia Hill Collins]], and [[80 - 89 Resources/82 Concepts/82.11. Intersectionality\|82.11. Intersectionality]]

## Realms: Sociology & Cultural Studies
For discussion: 
- Competing interests and agendas in homeless systems coordination

Theory:
- [[60 - 69 Power Generators/61 Countercultures/61.00. Countercultures\|61.00. Countercultures]] and [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.16. J. Milton Yinger\|81.16. J. Milton Yinger]]
- [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.05. Stuart Hall\|81.05. Stuart Hall]] and the Birmingham School
- [[80 - 89 Resources/82 Concepts/82.01. Hegemony\|82.01. Hegemony]] and [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.22. Antonio Gramsci\|81.22. Antonio Gramsci]]
- [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.23. Herbert Marcuse\|81.23. Herbert Marcuse]] and the Frankfurt School

::: hidden

Homelessness is an extreme, but *everyone* is affected by wealth disparities. How does this happen, how are people okay with this? It's not even on people's radar generally. Even if all policies were fixed.. still people's perceptions, everything else.

And meanwhile, legislators were actively making it a crime to be made homeless, the general public still saw it as individual moral failures...

Anecdotally, it's impossible to have a conversation about "government benefits" that doesn't bring up fraud at some point. Or how people need to be working. The common perceptions of welfare was so *unbelievably* far off from my own understanding of it through administration, though.
- the main program we think of welfare, in my state, gave like a hundred bucks a month
- and not to mention the administrative burden of getting benefits... not only are most people receiving government assistance working or unable to work, just **getting the benefits** is work alone!
- How does it just get worse all the time? Well answering that question - the history of welfare - takes you places. Welfare retrenchment not because welfare bad, but because of myth and fancy **rhetoric** from Milton Friedman
More recently, poverty road trip people and Frederick Turner frontier stuff.

My home state had a particularly rough relationship with benefits, offering one of the lowest amounts in the country. As I was researching for an essay about abstinence-only programs (*What's Your Pleasure?*), it turns out the same welfare retrenchment rhetoric has been used for generations... even as the material conditions changed so much! Tropes and messaging get policy out the door, not "objective reality," if that even exists. This seemed to be reinforced when exploring pop culture's seemingly apolitical influence on our beliefs, particularly as the Manifest Destiny-justifying Frontier myths from Frederick Jackson Turner's age perpetuate (reality TV unchallenged) to this day.

### Theory
If everything is socially constructed, what exactly causes people to think what they think?

You may have heard about CRITICAL RACE THEORY and INTERSECTIONALITY as these things that describe race, marginalization... and yes they are well-illustrated that way, but that doesn't mean they're limited to that!!!

PHC: categories are best understood in relational terms. They underlie and shape intersecting systems of power. Intersecting systems of power catalyze social formations of complex social inequalities that are organized via unequal material realities and distinctive social experiences for people who live within them

Seeing outside one's own Mythoscape is impossible until you're forced to grapple with other perspectives. Truthfully, learning about "Whiteness" - or the things we take for granted, showed how entirely differently people can experience the world.
- [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.27. Charles W. Mills\|81.27. Charles W. Mills]]
- [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.25. Eduardo Bonilla-Silva\|81.25. Eduardo Bonilla-Silva]]
	- White Logic, White Methods
- Mothers of Massive Resistance
- Cedric Robinson, Black Marxism
- [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.30. Kimberlé Crenshaw\|81.30. Kimberlé Crenshaw]] with intersectionality, [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.31. Patricia Hill Collins\|81.31. Patricia Hill Collins]] too
- Whiteness as Property, Cheryl Harris

#### Mythappropriation
Oh, and on a slightly unrelated note, [[30 - 39 Power Weapons/31 Mythappropriation/31.00. Mythappropriation\|31.00. Mythappropriation]] formed in a bit of a roundabout way. *Technofeudalism* (2024) from [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.26. Yanis Varoufakis\|81.26. Yanis Varoufakis]] makes an economic case that tech companies (and in turn, the global economy) are no longer operating under a capitalist structure, with platforms and rent instead of markets and profit. If we are no longer operating under the social contract of [[20 - 29 Myths/21 Mythoscapes/21.01. Capitalism\|21.01. Capitalism]], though, I think that begs a new question. Whether intentionally or not, 

exploitative practices in tech have been normalized by their leveraging of our expectations of Capitalism in 

## Realms: Sociology & Cultural Studies
At the end of the day, none of these perspectives were super *wrong*... It made sense organizations were focusing on their needs before collaboration, they needed to fight for their organizational survival to continue helping. It made sense people do not want their kids playing outside with strangers, it made sense some legislators responded to those needs... But how do we reconcile that with power, how do we reconcile that with the lack of basic needs? People are still left in the dust!

The final piece that needed to come together was what exactly *happens* with power. Something something.

### Theory
How do cultures change? Started early countercultural studies with Yinger, then eventually found the Cultural Studies of [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.05. Stuart Hall\|81.05. Stuart Hall]] and the Birmingham School. Like them, also influenced by ideas of [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.22. Antonio Gramsci\|81.22. Antonio Gramsci]] and [[80 - 89 Resources/82 Concepts/82.01. Hegemony\|82.01. Hegemony]].

### Mythappropriation
- The Miner's Canary
- The Shock Doctrine
- Elite Capture (olufemi taiwo)

:::

[^1]: The methodology alone caught my attention. In my previous work building out video game genres, I took a similar approach.