---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/00-09-website/05-research-goals/"}
---

> [!info] **Last Updated:** April 24, 2026

While a bulk of this [[00 - 09 Website/01. Overview\|PowerMyth Index]] is a library for general use, it's also (secretly) a vehicle for me to organize ideas and references for my own original contributions regarding [[70 - 79 Cyberspace/70. Cyberspace\|Cyberspace]], [[10 - 19 Power/10. Power\|Power]], and social inequity. This is all up in the air still, but here is generally what I think I'll do:

## Part 1: New Cultural Marxism+
***The Theoretical Backbone*** 

Cultural Marxism is a charged label in modern politics, often applied vaguely (and derogatorily) to ideas that promote diversity. Some extremists see Cultural Marxism as a plan to destroy American culture by implementing a sort of coordinated mass control over ideology. This is... kind of fascinating? How'd that happen? The scattered ideas that influenced the general concept of whatever is now called Cultural Marxism - [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.23. Herbert Marcuse\|Marcuse]], [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.05. Stuart Hall\|Hall]], [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.01. Michel Foucault\|Foucault]], and others - all seem to explicitly provide tools to *break free* from pre-imposed ideology. 

What happened back then, what has happened since, and where do we go next? This section will chart an academic genealogy of "Cultural Marxist" scholars and their work. It will then explore critiques from the political right, the political left, and mainstream academic debate. Finally, both theory and its critique will be synthesized into *New Cultural Marxism+* as an exploratory framework to set up an exploration into Cyberspace. 

------------------------------------------------
## Part 2: Cybercultural Appropriation
***Understanding Our World Today*** 

Cyberspace is a unique environment for cultural production and social organization. The mechanisms by which individuals communicate, seek knowledge, and create their own self-image occur under completely different rules than that of the "outside," yet norms that developed under conditions in the "outside" are brought into Cyberspace. Understanding this process may provide insight to the rapid cultural change impacting society.

What translation errors occurred on the way in, and does this transmutation affect norms going back out? This section will analyze the development of Cyberculture and like idk... some form of study here that gives insight toward the question, you know? The goal is basically to see how the structure of Cyberspace affects our perceptions regarding the self, economic practices, society, etc.

------------------------------------------------
## Part 3: Governance for Digital Utopia
***Policy Directions for a New Future*** 

The mainstream platforms that host the bulk of digital social organization are privately owned for-profit corporations, with these platforms classified as private property. In other words, digital institutions are shaped without, or even directly against, the needs of the people they serve with little to no alternative options.

Given the unique affordances of Cyberspace, how should digital platforms build participatory governance? This section will review governance models, analyze communities that operate independent from mainstream platforms, and explore options for digital democracy.

