---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/00-09-website/06-research-goals/"}
---

> [!info] **Last Updated:** March 30, 2026

Sometimes, things get a little sloppy here!! Where do synthesized ideas end and my original contributions begin? Hopefully this page helps clarify until standalone pieces are written.

## 1. PowerMyth Machine
First, the theoretical framework itself. At its core, PowerMyth tries to reconcile three schools of thought. In doing so, I think some of the harshest critiques of each can be addressed by insights of the others. That's not to say the critiques listed here are necessarily valid or reflect the work of most scholars in their respective tradition, but some conversations I think PowerMyth will contribute to are...

Postmodern/Poststructuralist Power:
- Lacks a clear link to material conditions, neutralizes the responsibility of oppressive actors, and is not easily applicable to tangible policy change

Critical Race Theory and Intersectionality:
- Reinforces socially constructed categories, lacks application to groups that are not typically marginalized, and leads to siloed understandings

Cultural Studies:
- Lacks unifying or rigorous methodology, overly romanticizes symbolic resistance without material/political grounding, and relies on vaguely defined constructs

PowerMyth throws around a lot of new terminology (I mostly hate it too, I'm sorry) in order to keep ideas standardized and consistent. A lot of concepts here are functionally "habitus AND xyz" or "milieu BUT xyz," which shouldn't be mistaken for attempts to significantly contribute imo. Oh, but [[30 - 39 Power Weapons/32 Echocultures/32.00. Echocultures\|32.00. Echocultures]] is new, hooray!

>[!question] **Confused?** Check out the [[10 - 19 Power/10. Power\|10. Power]] and [[00 - 09 Website/04. Bibliography\|04. Bibliography]] pages for more context!

At the end of the day, the number one priority with PowerMyth is to answer, especially for the sake of social justice efforts, [[00 - 09 Website/03. WHO CARES!!!!\|03. WHO CARES!!!!]] This is only the means to an application of abstract theory to strategy, policy, and action that improves the material conditions of people who are needlessly disadvantaged.

## 2. Cyberspace
The theoretical grounding of PowerMyth helps us understand how **[[70 - 79 Cyberspace/70 Cyberspace/70. Cyberspace\|70. Cyberspace]] has been used as a vehicle to normalize practices and values that further entrench economic and social inequities.**

Are [[40 - 49 Power Conduits/41. Digital Platforms\|41. Digital Platforms]] like newsstands, phone networks, or shopping malls? Historically, courts have looked to physical analogies to regulate Cyberspace, treating it as a tool or service we temporarily access. Cyberspace isn't just an extension of the physical world, though; it offers entirely unique methods of socialization and governance. A separate system of norms developed accordingly... that is, until a gradual shift saw them supplanted by those from the physical world.

Participation on the Internet was once associated with...
- **Free, open-source exchange**
	- ...but now, it is typical to **lack permanent product ownership** through subscription payment models
- **Artistic self-expression**
	- ...but now, it is typical for Platforms to **exploit user labor** through content creation and data collection
- **Obsessively curated and archived libraries**
	- ...but now, it is typical for **limited autonomy** with information and entertainment discovery through opaque recommendation algorithms

What caused such a drastic shift since the "wild west" days of the Internet?

Throughout the 2010s, the vast majority of digital social interaction became concentrated in spaces owned and maintained by corporations that shape these environments at will. I suspect this is related. If culture and institutions are constantly influencing each other, how does the structure of Cyberspace affect what we perceive to be normal, and how does this then translate to social and political change in the physical world?

### PART 1: CULTURE
***How did centralized Digital Platforms cause cultural change in Cyberspace from 1994 - 2026?*** 
*Key Concepts: [[10 - 19 Power/15. Boundary Negotiation\|15. Boundary Negotiation]], [[30 - 39 Power Weapons/31 Mythappropriation/31.00. Mythappropriation\|31.00. Mythappropriation]]*

>[!question] **Possible Study...**
>*Ethnomethodology + Discourse Analysis.* The Indie Web/Web Revival is a small counterculture that valorizes an Internet long gone, while "Big Tech" has espoused the same values when describing their products. How has social organization in Cyberspace changed over time, and what changes have had "real world" implications?

### PART 2: EXPRESSION
***How do the structures of Digital Platforms influence self-expression?***
*Key Concepts: [[10 - 19 Power/12. Dominant Realm\|12. Dominant Realm]], [[10 - 19 Power/13. Realm Enforcers\|13. Realm Enforcers]]*

>[!question] **Possible Study...**
*Qualitative long-form interviews.* Several prominent online content creators on YouTube have mentioned the impact of explicit and implicit platform mechanics in what can be said (and therefore, what is created). Does a lack of transparent platform governance reproduce hegemony?

### PART 3: IDENTITY
***How do Digital Platforms encourage subgroup identification?***
*Key Concepts: [[20 - 29 Myths/21 Mythoscapes/21.00. Mythoscapes\|21.00. Mythoscapes]], [[30 - 39 Power Weapons/32 Echocultures/32.00. Echocultures\|32.00. Echocultures]]*

>[!question] **Possible Study...**
*Quantitative survey.* Much of the literature on the Manosphere centers secondhand analysis of its members as political radicals or violent extremists, though Cyberspace allows for an infinitely broad range of community identification. How do those who directly engage, from active production to passive consumption, situate themselves with mainstream society?


