---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/30-39-power-weapons/35-concentration/"}
---

**Concentration** describes how [[10 - 19 Power/14. Power Capacitors\|14. Power Capacitors]] can be hoarded by actors. This is sometimes done through active decision-making, though plenty of institutions are designed in such a way that Concentration is passive or inevitable. 

It gets a little complicated when different types of Capacitors are mixed for this. Think of someone buying airtime on cable news to promote a tax cut that favors them (i.e., using *money* for *influence* on *policy* that results in more *money*).

But tbh, this Index is more focused on invisible [[30 - 39 Power Weapons/30 Power Weapons/30. Power Weapons\|30. Power Weapons]], and plenty of folks have written extensively on this topic before... so this page will just have different perspectives to dive into if you're interested. As always, send me recommendations if you have them!

## Wealth

>[!tldr] **Further Reading:**
>Money:
>- Harrington, Brooke. *Capital Without Borders: Wealth Managers and the One Percent.* (2016)
>- Piketty, Thomas. *Capital in the Twenty-First Century.* (2013)
>- Saez, Emmanuel & Gabriel Zucman. *The Triumph of Injustice: How the Rich Dodge Taxes and How to Make Them Pay.* (2019) 
>
>Housing:
>- Gray, M. Nolan. *Arbitrary Lines*. (2022)
>- Rothstein, Richard. *The Color of Law.* (2017)
>- Stein, Samuel. *Capital City: Gentrification and the Real Estate State.* (2019)


## Governance

>[!tldr] **Further Reading:**
>- Hacker, Jacob & Paul Pierson. *Winner-Take-All Politics: How Washington Made the Rich Richer.* (2010)
>- [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.33. C. Wright Mills\|Mills, C. Wright]]. *The Power Elite.* (1956)

## Influence

>[!tldr] **Further Reading:**
>- [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.04. Pierre Bourdieu\|Bourdieu, Pierre]]. *The Field of Cultural Production.* (1993)
>- [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.05. Stuart Hall\|Hall, Stuart]]. *Policing the Crisis.* (1978)
>- Herman, Edward S. & Noam Chomsky. *Manufacturing Consent.* (1988)