---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/70-79-cyberspace/70-cyberspace/70-cyberspace/"}
---

> [!Warning] *This page is currently a braindump, come back later!*

### Quick Concept Recap!!!
Remember how [[20 - 29 Myths/20 Power Myths/20. Power Myths\|20. Power Myths]] and [[20 - 29 Myths/21 Mythoscapes/21. Mythoscapes\|21. Mythoscapes]] help define the boundaries of our [[20 - 29 Myths/22 Realms of Possibility/22. Realms of Possibility\|22. Realms of Possibility]]? And how the average of a society's Realms determine [[20 - 29 Myths/22 Realms of Possibility/22.01. Dominant Culture\|22.01. Dominant Culture]], which informs our laws, culture, norms, etc.? Generally, since those boundaries are defined by unstated assumptions, we don't realize it's possible to change them. ***Or***, because they're such abstract concepts built over time by society, that they're set in stone. However... it's actually kind of the opposite. Because they're socially constructed, they can also be socially changed. 

Some groups identify this and deliberately want something different: [[60 - 69 Power Builders/61 Countercultures/61. Countercultures\|61. Countercultures]] and other [[60 - 69 Power Builders/60 Power Builders/60. Power Builders\|60. Power Builders]]. Social or political movements take matters into their own hands, and in rejection of Dominant Culture, they expand their individual Realms of Possibility even further. In the process, they are also increasing who is involved in shaping a Realm.

In some situations, this is actually successful. By demonstrating their ability to expand Realms, they inspire others and result in adaptation from Dominant Culture. Perhaps in some cases the effects are minimal, and in others it's only the illusion of change... but either way, remember that [[50 - 59 Power Tools/51 Boundary Negotation/51. Boundary Negotiation\|51. Boundary Negotiation]] is at the center of this relationship between Countercultures and Dominant Culture. What happens then, when certain individuals or groups benefit from the Dominant Culture's status quo? And uh... they don't like that change?

This is when [[30 - 39 Power Weapons/32 Echocultures/32. Echocultures\|32. Echocultures]] come in - a [[30 - 39 Power Weapons/31 Mythappropriation/31. Mythappropriation\|31. Mythappropriation]] of Countercultures that seek to shift Dominant Culture back to where it once was. This generally features a return to hierarchical, oppressive structures where those involved in shaping Realm boundaries is limited. Think of the KKK, who were unhappy with the expansion of Black rights. Some examples we see today are [[30 - 39 Power Weapons/32 Echocultures/32.02. Incel\|32.02. Incel]] subgroups (Manosphere, looksmaxxing) and [[30 - 39 Power Weapons/32 Echocultures/32.03. Tradlife\|32.03. Tradlife]]. 

The struggle over Realm boundaries is at the heart of society's cultural and political debates, but the battle is not on an equal playing field. The winning team has more tools at their disposal. Consider how those in Dominant Culture have the advantage of [[10 - 19 Power/12. Accumulative Types\|12. Accumulative Types]] of Power, and how [[10 - 19 Power/13. Permeative Types\|13. Permeative Types]] automatically reproduce Dominant Culture. Echocultures are not starting from a place of being outcast from society, nor are they subject to the same kind of [[30 - 39 Power Weapons/33 Repression/33. Repression\|33. Repression]] that Countercultures face.

### Early Internet Culture
So. Here's a weird situation. Generally, this boundary negotiation happens in direct conversation with Dominant Culture. To reject or return is irrelevant; both must operate within the existing space in which we all live. But... what if that wasn't the case? What if it were just separate? THIS describes the [[60 - 69 Power Builders/61 Countercultures/61.03. Indie Web\|61.03. Indie Web]].

Of course, the Indie Web does still have countercultural roots - stemming from late 70s and 80s hacker culture - but in Cyberspace, it *was* the Dominant Culture. Anti-establishment values reigned supreme: open-source sharing of information and art, community-driven connections, and a rejection of centralized corporate control. This was culturally ingrained with a chaotic and handcrafted aesthetic, featuring an abundance of clashing colors, low-resolution gifs, and a highly informal tone. Countercultures often struggle to create their utopian alternative when they still largely operate under the framework of Dominant Culture, but it was different here. Not only did the web provide unique tools for the spread of culture, Indie Web users were often those who *built the infrastructure* of this new "society" in the first place. As such, new institutions could reflect these norms.

### What Happened?
Then... things changed. The Indie Web didn't maintain its grip as the Dominant Culture of Cyberspace during mass adoption of the Internet as a social platform in the mid-2000s. Instead, Dominant Culture from the outside - the "real world" - took its place. Some might chalk this up to a natural process of *more people* being on the Internet, and maybe there's truth to that. After all, we did already identify those on the Indie Web as countercultural to the society it came from. We might expect, then, that the Mythoscapes of new users would come in and shift the average Realm of Possibility for Cyberspace to a place closer to that of the outside.

***However, I think that's wrong.*** 

Why should we assume that one's "outside" Realm directly translates to Cyberspace? For general users, Cyberspace often required a fresh start. The methods of interacting on an online forum or chatroom are far different than that of a physical club, and the expectations for one's involvement are hardly comparable. In this case, how transferable are the elements of a "real world" social interaction Mythoscape to Cyberspace? This is the case for many of the **really baseline** Mythoscapes, from shopping to learning to self-identifying. All of these norms need to be learned, which means Cyberspace's Dominant Culture should have successfully shaped the Realms of new users. Institutions were already established, and we know how Permeative Types of Power passively reproduce the Dominant Culture.

*Passively* is the key word, though. Perhaps instead, there was an intentional use of Permeative Types of Power to reshape Dominant Culture in Cyberspace. 

### Platforms and Algorithms
Okay so basically, the argument here will be that when [[40 - 49 Power Actors/41 Technofeudalists/41. Technofeudalists\|41. Technofeudalists]] came in to dominate the web, they did so by Mythappropriating Indie Web culture. [[30 - 39 Power Weapons/31 Mythappropriation/31.03. Infiltration\|31.03. Infiltration]] plays a big part of this of course, but it goes deeper than that.

All of this "innovative new technology" is unequivocally helpful, they say, getting us closer to the cyber utopia we dreamt of. But how many new tools for cultural change did this give them?
- The standard user profiles on common social platforms (like Facebook and Twitter) decreased the skill ceiling for people to participate online. Even grandma can join without needing to code HTML. **However...** now the rules of social spaces are entirely dictated in private boardrooms. Who can or can't participate, what topics can be discussed, and even how one chooses to express their identity are all confined to corporate decisions.
	- (i.e., a lot of second dimension stuff)
- Search algorithms like Google are super helpful for sorting through immense amounts of data. Again, it decreased the skill ceiling for people who did not already know where to look. **However...** the illusion of neutrality makes us comfortable with accepting knowledge that is inherently not neutral. SEO can be gamed and already rewards institutions with Accumulative Types of Power. Intense data collection designed to make you find things you want easier instead shapes preferences through targeted advertising and content recommendation algorithms. Once again, the rules here are unclear to the general public, as algorithms are behind this black box seemingly too complex for normies to understand.
	- (i.e., a lot of third dimension stuff)

Anyway... At this point, Cyberspace and the real world are very closely linked. The media finally started to notice how Cyberspace seems to foster reactionary or extremist groups, first with the Alt-Right and later with Trump's 2024 election success among young men. It also goes the other way, where real world Dominant Culture is perpetually pumped into Cyberspace until all the fancy tools of capitalism - and the myths that justify them - are normalized.

BUT. What's even **CRAZIER**?! The Realm of Possibility in Cyberspace seems even SMALLER than that of the real world now!! Anyway this is all kind of getting disorganized and rambly at this point, but hopefully you get the idea. Technofeudalists acted like they were bringing over real world Mythoscapes, but since they shaped the rules of the game, they adjusted them to consolidate even more Power, and... idk bro, if you really can't wait to read more, ask me about the essay I did last semester where I talk about it a lot more. Eventually more will be included on this Index.

### Some Hope
Okay wait I promised I was done talking but let me at least leave you with one quick digression so we can leave this on a high note... So like, Countercultures are usually stifled in a number of ways, but the most common one is being appropriated by Dominant Culture. It's v easy to lose the "cool factor," or authenticity, when outsiders try to commercialize its vibes. Put that in your back pocket for a second.

In a post-Corporate Web world, the remnants of the Indie Web are now strewn across different online Countercultures. Spiritual successors everywhere! There's the very deliberate Web Revival movement emulating the Indie Web, sure, but you also have homebrew communities, data liberation advocates, etc. etc. etc. All helpful to understand. AND!! Hmm, what demographic of people may have been exposed to the Indie Web as they were developing consciousness...

I think there is a meaningful connection where the values of the Indie Web were imbued in the Gen Z Mythoscape, and it hasn't really been relevant because Gen Z has been too young for participation in politics or mainstream culture.

But consider the dominant forms of content/entertainment on the Internet during these formative years - from YouTube Poops to MLG Montages to Rage Comics to brainrot. Intentionally low-quality, steeped in layers of irony and meta humor, and heavily reliant on esoteric symbols and imagery. Culturally, I think this is (at least in part) responsible for a propensity for Gen Z to not just reject institutional authority but also reject a lot of these so-called "truths" about reality. Metamodernism and whatnot. In other words, you have a group that's far more inclined for systems change.

Okay now pull that thing out of your back pocket again. How do institutions or actors of Dominant Culture even try to appropriate culture so defined by, not just *rejection* of dominant values but like.. rejection of their very existence? Artificial attempts by corporations or governments to appropriate this humor/culture are painfully obvious as a result. And tbh, just anecdotally, I'm kind of proud whenever I see an example of this on Instagram and there are 10000 comments all saying "nice try diddy"

Obviously this might make them more vulnerable to mythappropriation, as I think we've seen happen recently, but... it's complicated! Okay more laterated, idk, more on this later.

### SIGNIFICANCE
This stuff is awesomesauce and super interesting because it helps us understand a bunch of different concepts.
- **Permeative Types of Power**
	- Domination is far less visible these days, so we need to understand these more. Because culture and institutions needed to be built from scratch, Cyberspace gives us a much more isolated view than we would get elsewhere. How do norms develop? How do they change? It's all so fresh, so we have a lot more information on causes.
- **Mythappropriation** - how do people intentionally leverage Permeative Types of Power?
	- Technofeudalists (and Silicon Valley more generally) basically perfected the Echoculture strategy. From the outside, they also seemed anti-establishment, even though they were actively limiting who is involved in shaping the boundaries of Dominant Culture
	- But really, the transition from the Indie Web to the Corporate Web hits every existing type of Mythappropriation to a T! Categorization/subjectivization, internalization (especially fatalism), infiltration (even more so with AI), and distraction (ofc)
