---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/40-49-power-conduits/40-power-conduits/","pinned":"true"}
---

> [!Warning] *This page is currently a stub. Come back soon!*

**Power Conduits** are actors - individuals, groups, or entities - that serve as vessels for [[10 - 19 Power/10. Power\|Power]] in different ways. Their role in society ascribes strengths and weaknesses for certain types of Power to be manifested. 

Take the [[10 - 19 Power/13. Realm Enforcers\|Realm Enforcers]] of Power, for example. [[40 - 49 Power Conduits/43. Government\|Government]] and [[40 - 49 Power Conduits/42. Academia\|Academia]] are avenues to shape institutions, whereas [[40 - 49 Power Conduits/44. Media\|Media]] and [[40 - 49 Power Conduits/45. Religion\|Religion]] help shape culture. These examples are not exclusive but rather help to illustrate how each Conduit has unique capabilities. This is necessary to understand if strategizing effective [[10 - 19 Power/15. Boundary Negotiation\|Boundary Negotiation]].

Conduits are not inherently sources of domination or oppression, as some throughout the [[80 - 89 Resources/80 Resources/80.01. Power Debate\|Power Debate]] debate have suggested. Theoretically, they are neutral avenues to expanding or contracting the [[10 - 19 Power/12. Dominant Realm\|Dominant Realm]]. This is in contrast to the [[60 - 69 Power Generators/60. Power Generators\|Power Generators]] section, which features actors that carry a particular emphasis of expansion (and usually operate from outside the Dominant Realm).