---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/10-19-power/10-power/","tags":["gardenEntry"]}
---

## POWER
*If you would like to see the full page list, please visit the [[00 - 09 Website/00. Site Index\|00. Site Index]].* 

### What is Power?
> (INTERESTING BLOCKQUOTE HERE)

First of all, hey :) Welcome to the PowerMyth Index.

Before diving any deeper, let's make sure we're on the same page about a concept that isn't quite as intuitive as we might think: **power**. To tackle any social issue, we first need to understand the key to social relations.

For today’s public imagination, one interpretation of power conquers all. A businessman *gains power* as he rises through the ranks in the company. An empire *amasses power* as its territory expands. Super Mario even *powers up* when he obtains a mushroom. This intangible concept is often rationalized as a resource that accumulates like capital at the expense of the power*less*. The more you have, the stronger you are. You can choose your own destiny, and perhaps more importantly, dominate others. *But is it really so simple?*

In the form of money or job description, power is easily measurable and compared. But who has more power between an unassuming billionaire and an armed vigilante? Which is more influential between a coordinated propaganda network and a deeply resonant work of art? And is it possible for even a successful CEO to be insulated from racial discrimination or stereotyping? The exchange rate, if there even is one, is entirely context-dependent.

So, there are limits to *exclusively* considering the [[10 - 19 Power/12. Accumulative Types\|12. Accumulative Types]] of power. It may be a practical starting point, but power is like an iceberg where its visible expressions only represent a small fraction of its possible configurations. Domination happens in other ways, too. A person, or a group, can be excluded from writing the rules that affect them. They can be psychologically manipulated. **BUT WAIT!!** Let me ask you this - is *domination* even enough to describe power?

Just because power is relational by its very nature does not necessarily mean someone is actively exercising it. There are also the [[10 - 19 Power/13. Permeative Types\|13. Permeative Types]], which can almost be thought of more like... energy. Aura. Midi-chlorians. [Nanomachines, son](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RhMsboqMMzs). Culture, institutions, and social norms all serve as forces that impact all of our decision-making. No matter how indirectly these links seem, *they* can be shaped too. Reaching this deep into the well of power gives us a much clearer picture of what a more comprehensive definition looks like...

Well, let's be honest, I can't say it any better than this: 

> "Power’s mechanisms are best conceived, not as instruments powerful agents use to prevent the powerless from acting freely, but rather as social boundaries that, together, define fields of action for all actors. Power defines fields of possibility. It facilitates and constrains social action."
> 
> - [[80 - 89 Resources/81 People/81.02 Clarissa Hayward\|81.02 Clarissa Hayward]], *De-facing Power (1998)*

Power is complex; it is defined by contradictions. Just as it subjugates, it subtly guides. Just as it is driven through legislation, it is driven through conversation. Just as it is acquired by an economic elite, it is built by people living on the street. The more we can understand power, the better equipped we are to harness it for positive social change.

### Uh... Ok, What Next?
Power literacy gives us an incredibly useful lens to view the world. It's a new frame to understand individual actions, social structures, and the cyclical relationship between the two. So! The next page you explore here on the PowerMyth Index doesn't really matter. *Follow your heart*. Either way, you'll learn something that can hopefully be applied to your own experiences.

Here are some recommendations:
- If you want to learn more power THEORY, continue this section with [[10 - 19 Power/12. Accumulative Types\|12. Accumulative Types]], [[10 - 19 Power/13. Permeative Types\|13. Permeative Types]], or [[10 - 19 Power/11. History of Power\|11. History of Power]]

- If you want to understand SOCIETY...
	- [[20 - 29 Myths/20 Power Myths/20. Power Myths\|20. Power Myths]] and [[20 - 29 Myths/21 Mythoscapes/21. Mythoscapes\|21. Mythoscapes]] explain why we make the decisions we do

- If you want the ACTION...
	- [[30 - 39 Power Weapons/31 Mythappropriation/31. Mythappropriation\|31. Mythappropriation]] and [[30 - 39 Power Weapons/32 Echocultures/32. Echocultures\|32. Echocultures]] are some ways power is leveraged
	- [[50 - 59 Power Tools/50 Power Tools/50. Power Tools\|50. Power Tools]] outline how power can be generated

- If you want PEOPLE...
	- Learn how different [[40 - 49 Power Actors/40 Power Actors/40. Power Actors\|40. Power Actors]] have unique relationships with power
	- Learn how the so-called "powerless" have become [[60 - 69 Power Builders/60 Power Builders/60. Power Builders\|60. Power Builders]]

This website is currently a passion project of a busy doctoral student, so expect a lot of missing pieces... If this is helpful, I would eventually like to turn this into a crowdsourced effort, so if you have any suggestions or would like to collaborate, please email belmontindex@gmail.com. I hope you enjoy!