---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/10-19-power/14-conditions-of-power/"}
---

> [!Warning] *This page is currently a stub. Beware, rambling ahead!*

**Conditions of Power** are essentially accumulative capital (whether material or social) that serve as *potential* [[10 - 19 Power/10. Power\|10. Power]]. We're talking money, resources, policies, clout, status, and then everything that's included in the [[20 - 29 Myths/20 Power Myths/20. Power Myths\|20. Power Myths]] section. These Conditions form the base of [[30 - 39 Power Weapons/30 Power Weapons/30. Power Weapons\|30. Power Weapons]] and [[50 - 59 Power Tools/50 Power Tools/50. Power Tools\|50. Power Tools]]. Although their value is relationally determined, **more** of a Condition generally leads to an advantage for [[10 - 19 Power/15. Boundary Negotiation\|15. Boundary Negotiation]] (and vice versa).

Tbh, this will take me a while to write out, sorry... It's a hefty one. The intent is to engage with critiques levied against the structural (or *de-faced*) interpretations discussed in the [[80 - 89 Resources/80 Resources/80.01. History of Power\|80.01. History of Power]]. I think it's possible to reconcile the traditional notion (from earlier thinkers) that people "have" more Power than others, it just comes with a billion caveats. Either way, these elements are the critical piece of translating Power theory to the real world! Be back soon.

### What is Accumulative Power?
(write brief introduction here)

### Material: “Money is Power.”
Resources allow someone to fulfill life’s basic needs, and more resources widen the possibilities one has in life. Money pays for groceries, a nice suit, or a fancy car. Material power need not necessarily be physical, either; billionaires like Elon Musk have primarily illiquid fortunes tied to the ownership of companies or other assets (Balloch & Richers, 2023). This infrastructure serves as leverage to borrow funds as needed. Capital, in the traditional sense, remains definitively measurable and exchangeable.

For this reason, wealth disparities on their own are still ripe for a redistributive analysis. Given a literally finite amount of resources, any accumulation is indeed at the expense of someone else, and economic growth continues to exclusively benefit the wealthiest Americans (Congressional Budget Office, 2022). Self-resolution is unlikely when wealth and debt have inherent properties that further entrench the status of someone’s material power. Much like interest (whether positively with investments, or negatively with debt) is determined by the current value, abundant material power can open wealth-generating doors inaccessible to those who lack it.

### Structural: “One Man, One Vote.”
Democratic governance theoretically ensures all citizens are extended the ability to determine the laws and regulations upholding a society. Structural power is most obviously wielded by the decision-makers that set this framework then, though all citizens have some fluctuating influence as well. External participation in the electoral process comes at the exchange of material power: money, time, and resources can all determine outcomes. This connection is further highlighted by the disproportionate influence economic elites maintain on public policy (Gilens & Page, 2014). 

When government is uninsulated from material influence, structural power also becomes accumulative in both directions. Elon Musk was able to contribute upwards of $290 million to a Super PAC that helped successfully elect Donald Trump and Republicans in 2024 (Meyers, 2025). Musk then wielded significant decision-making over the executive branch, which included actions to weaken regulatory bodies that could threaten his companies’ material interests (Condon, 2025). Conversely, weakened voter enfranchisement is tied to worsened economic outcomes for that group (Aneja & Avenancio-León, 2019). Reducing one’s involvement, or ability to advocate their needs, extends the possibility of laws that disadvantage them. It is no coincidence that redlining policies were not driven by Black people.

### Power Myths: “History is Written by the Victors.”
Ideas inform action. In daily life, a well-articulated argument can persuade someone into doing something they otherwise would not have, and this continues to be true at scale. Though ideological power is too intangible for concrete measurement, one’s reach, platform, credibility, and relationships are all indicators. For a powerful agent like Musk, statements referring to the “‘homeless’ aka ‘drug zombie’ industrial complex” are widely disseminated (Christensen, 2024). Meanwhile, it is at the media’s discretion whether the voice of someone with limited material or structural power is spread. Or, where a government agency’s authority supplies some amount automatically, private advertisers may instead exchange material power for ideological.

Ideological power is particularly strong when used by institutions that create meaning, such as employers or government bodies. Gaventa (1982) explored how exploitative mining executives in Appalachia cultivated dependence and shaped regional identity to a point where the community found no need to challenge the status quo. By weaponizing a now-internalized powerlessness in its employees, the Company’s domination became insurmountable.

### Accumulative Limitations
Even among more measurable forms of power, its value is still context-sensitive. Money can be counted, though how does that compare to the material power of a gun? Heavily consolidated executive branch power can be stymied by a district court judge, and control of mass media may never resonate the same way that a single piece of art can. Interactions among forms also bear unpredictable relationships. A state legislature dominated by one political party could have its structural power subverted with an effective message from a grassroots voter proposition.

What the accumulative lens demonstrates most effectively is the symbiotic nature of material, structural, and ideological power. If social justice seeks to reform imbalanced systems, it should not ignore this mechanism. Even if advocates for ending homelessness are successful in mitigating harsh economic conditions and easing administrative barriers for people to access support, mainstream narratives surrounding homelessness and its causes will still stifle public interest in structural change. Challenges to inequity must address all these forms simultaneously.