---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/10-19-power/15-boundary-negotiation/"}
---

> [!Warning] *This page is currently a stub. Come back soon!*

**Boundary Negotiation** is the process by which [[10 - 19 Power/11. Realms of Freedom\|11. Realms of Freedom]] expand or contract due to changes in laws and norms.

Naturally, we could expect Negotiations to be occurring constantly, at any given moment. Conversations with a friend can flip someone's opinion, experiencing an expression of art can add a new perspective, and so on. However, analysis of boundary changes should primarily be concerned with two outcomes: the **scale** (individual or societal) and the **significance** (how much expansion/contraction).

At the societal level, Negotiations impact the [[10 - 19 Power/12. Dominant Realm\|12. Dominant Realm]]. This happens through political debate and advocacy, social movements, scholarly contributions, and so on. When considering the full range of Realms in a society (particularly those that are far excluded from the Dominant Realm), it is important to note that the terms of acceptable debate are themselves limited: While there can sometimes be regulations to [[20 - 29 Myths/21 Mythoscapes/21.01. Capitalism\|21.01. Capitalism]], there must still *be* Capitalism. Oftentimes, these limits are maintained through unstated assumptions about the [[10 - 19 Power/13. Realm Enforcers\|13. Realm Enforcers]] and their inability to change. 

However... because all this nonsense we're talking about is socially constructed, it can also be socially changed! Woo yay hooray. Our concern is with who is involved in shaping the Dominant Realm, or more specifically, who is *excluded* from shaping the Dominant Realm. The Negotiations are not an equal playing field.

Okay tbh I need to clean up the [[60 - 69 Power Generators/61 Countercultures/61. Countercultures\|61. Countercultures]] and [[30 - 39 Power Weapons/32 Echocultures/32. Echocultures\|32. Echocultures]] pages before I decide what else to add here...