---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/20-29-myths/21-mythoscapes/21-00-mythoscapes/"}
---

> [!Warning] *This page is currently a stub. Come back soon!*

**Mythoscapes** are the networks of myths that inform our [[10 - 19 Power/11. Realms of Freedom\|11. Realms of Freedom]], collectively standing up institutions, identities, and cultures. Where [[20 - 29 Myths/20 Power Myths/20.00. Power Myths\|20.00. Power Myths]] justify beliefs, Mythoscapes legitimize entire systems of thought. Each person's ideology is an intersectional representation of the Mythoscapes that influence them.

### Identifying Mythoscapes
Initially, Mythoscapes might seem indistinguishable from culture. Take this defining feature of both: the unwritten rules one must adhere to as a club member. The Old Wealth Mythoscape scoffs at speaking about the cost of purchases, and the New York City Mythoscape suggests you don't approach strangers without good reason. Reciprocal participation then forms an invisible contract, where each actor now has a general expectation of the possible actions and reactions another can take. Exchanges under [[20 - 29 Myths/21 Mythoscapes/21.01. Capitalism\|21.01. Capitalism]] only work if there is an understanding from the customer that the seller's price for goods is honest and fair.

Mythoscapes, though, do not only describe groups of people as culture would. Society also constructs them for abstract concepts. Consider for a moment how myths, norms, and contracts shape your relationship with [[20 - 29 Myths/21 Mythoscapes/21.04. Knowledge\|21.04. Knowledge]]. We assume there is a clear line between fact and fiction. In gathering knowledge from others, we follow equations to rationalize its validity: whether a fact seems reasonable, how credible the source is, and so on. The processes themselves may or may not be helpful - it's kind of irrelevant. Ultimately, the power of Mythoscapes lies in our *expectations*.

### Mythoscapes and You
Each and every person is composed of a bajillion different Mythoscapes and their interactions. Some may be entirely unrelated - perhaps joining a swimming club doesn't present any challenges to one's religion. Some might act as an introduction to another, like a political party to a policy area. And... SOMETIMES! They even come into conflict. This part's important.

You see, people aren't exclusively defined by their Mythoscapes. They just serve as a **starting point**. Instead, it might be more helpful to think of how people shape their decisions and beliefs with respect to their Mythoscapes. There's a difference between intentional and automatic agreement. And, of course, someone might not ascribe to a Mythoscape universally and deliberately reject certain elements.

Enough rejection, questioning, or conflict can cause someone to exit from a Mythoscape entirely. This process can be particularly meaningful, especially for the first time, because it exposes them to a familiar Mythoscape from the outside. This might be transferable to how someone sees the world more generally, allowing for a recognition of other Mythoscapes.

Is this understanding of the forces that shape us the self-enlightenment that groups have consistently sought since [[60 - 69 Power Generators/63 Gnosticism/63.00. Gnosticism\|63.00. Gnosticism]] in the first century CE?

### Leveraging Mythoscapes
Mythoscapes are relevant for a few reasons. First of all, familiarity with someone else's Mythoscapes can be illuminating. If their decisions or beliefs seem unthinkable to you, is it possible that a part of their core values are coming from a different perspective? It is a route to understanding, at least, how someone came to that point. However, some can take advantage of this.

If you tinker with the margins of computer code - nothing drastic, same filename - how long before anyone notices?

Mythoscapes are bound to adjust over time. They may be forced to reckon with new situations or technology. Like cultural change, this would be expected to happen in response to popular sentiment, but that's not necessarily always the case. Authority figures can lead in new directions. Appealing to the heart of a given Mythoscape can often buy enough goodwill from its subscribers to allow for significant change.

From there, [[30 - 39 Power Weapons/31 Mythappropriation/31.00. Mythappropriation\|31.00. Mythappropriation]] through [[30 - 39 Power Weapons/31 Mythappropriation/31.03. Infiltration\|31.03. Infiltration]], and... yeah, this section is still being built out SORRY :)