---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/20-29-myths/20-power-myths/20-01-the-villain/"}
---

[[20 - 29 Myths/20 Power Myths/20.00. Power Myths\|Power Myths]] of **The Villain** broadly paint actors - usually those outside the [[10 - 19 Power/12. Dominant Realm\|Dominant Realm]] - in a negative light. The named group may be dangerous, threatening, or merely different. Regardless, they are not to be trusted. These Myths can usually be identified by an over-generalization of identities that include a diverse range of individual people.

## Primary Uses
I mean, these generally have a pretty straightforward transition to [[30 - 39 Power Weapons/33. Categorization\|Categorization]]: they quickly turn everything into a binary, a simplified debate of good vs. evil. While it's actually quite possible you and the demonized group have shared interests, it's deemed necessary to draw a line in the sand to preserve the sanctity of the Dominant Realm.

Demonization Myths play a key role in justifying oppression against [[60 - 69 Power Generators/60. Power Generators\|Power Generators]] and minoritized groups. By painting slaves, the poor, or women as subhuman, it makes it easier to digest policy that takes advantage of them. Such myths may even result is that group's [[30 - 39 Power Weapons/34. Normalization\|Internalization]] of such thoughts, reducing their likelihood of fighting back. Additionally, Villain Myths also help to [[30 - 39 Power Weapons/37. Repression\|Repress]] or invalidate thought that conflicts with dominant interests. By challenging the status quo, labor unions, Communists, or even "the Woke" are described as having explicitly *dangerous* ideologies that will threaten your loved ones or your country.

## Examples
### The Unworthy

- **Affirmatively Unqualified**: The idea that proactive efforts to increase opportunity for disadvantaged groups results in such groups being unfairly boosted. *“That black pilot only got his job because of DEI policies!”*
- **Welfare Queen**: The idea that groups supported by state welfare act fraudulently or in otherwise deceptive manners. *“That woman is having more children just to get more money from the government!”*
- **Lazy Immigrant**: The idea that foreign groups have not provided valuable contributions to the country. *“That Mexican only came to America to leech off benefits!”*
- **Chosen Poverty**: The idea that groups in severe economic conditions made that conscious choice. *“That homeless man wouldn’t be on the street if he wasn’t an addict!”*

>[!tldr] **Further Reading:**
>- Gilens, Martin. *Why Americans Hate Welfare*. (1999)

### The Enemy

> [!Warning] *This section is currently a stub. Come back soon!*

- Dirty Communist: The idea that proponents of redistributive policies are conduits of authoritarian regimes. *“Comrade Kamala is going to control the government!"*
- Dangerous Terrorist: The idea that oppositional groups hold an intrinsically violent disdain for core tenets of American ideology. *“Antifa supersoldiers must be stopped!"*
- Woke Mob:
- Crime-Ridden City: 
- Savage Protestor:

### The Other

> [!Warning] *This page is currently a stub. Come back soon!*

- Perpetual Foreigner: The idea that immigrant groups can never fully identify as American, regardless of legal status.
- Flyover Country: The idea that certain geographic regions are undesirable due to supposedly monolithic populations that inhabit them. *“Why would anyone go to Alabama?”*
- Polarized Times: The idea that divisive political ideologies must prevent human connection.

>[!tldr] **Further Reading:**
>- Barber, William. J. *White Poverty.* (2024)
>- Said, Edward. *Orientalism*. (1978)

