---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/40-49-power-conduits/40-power-conduits/40-power-conduits/"}
---

> [!Warning] *This page is currently a stub. Come back soon!*

**Power Conduits** are actors - individuals, groups, or entities - that serve as vessels for [[10 - 19 Power/10. Power\|10. Power]] in different ways. Their role in society ascribes strengths and weaknesses for certain types of Power to be manifested. 

Take the [[10 - 19 Power/13. Realm Enforcers\|13. Realm Enforcers]] of Power, for example. [[40 - 49 Power Conduits/43 Government/43. Government\|43. Government]] and [[40 - 49 Power Conduits/42 Academia/42. Academia\|42. Academia]] are avenues to shape institutions, whereas [[40 - 49 Power Conduits/44 Media/44. Media\|44. Media]] and [[40 - 49 Power Conduits/45 Religion/45. Religion\|45. Religion]] help shape culture. These examples are not exclusive but rather help to illustrate how each Conduit has unique capabilities. This is necessary to understand if strategizing effective [[10 - 19 Power/15. Boundary Negotiation\|15. Boundary Negotiation]].

Conduits are not inherently sources of domination or oppression, as some throughout the [[80 - 89 Resources/80 Resources/80.01. Power Debate\|80.01. Power Debate]] debate have suggested. Theoretically, they are neutral avenues to expanding or contracting the [[10 - 19 Power/12. Dominant Realm\|12. Dominant Realm]]. This is in contrast to the [[60 - 69 Power Generators/60 Power Generators/60. Power Generators\|60. Power Generators]] section, which features actors that carry a particular emphasis of expansion (and usually operate from outside the Dominant Realm).